Did you know that there is a disaster risk
reduction and management in Bicol
University Polangie Campus? If yes, good
for you.
And if no, you better know. Are you
prepared?
What if this happens? Are you sure that
the knowledge you have right now is
enough to make you safe during disasters?
What should we
do during disaster? It is important to
know the kinds of
disaster that can happen where you live
and where your children go to school or
work. The best way to learn is to ask
questions.
What are the types of disaster? We have
typhoons,
earthquakes, flood, volcanic eruption.
What if we are inside the campus? Here are
some measures before,
during, and after that you need to take
note of.
But first, let me introduce you to the
BUPC map.
What is the use of the BUPC map? The BUPC
map will
guide you to the possible exits or the
safe places within the campus
when a disaster occurs. During an
earthquake, we can use
the open spaces of the buildings in the
campus, just like the soccer field and
in front of the administration building.
For typhoons,
we can make use of the SB buildings for
the evacuation center.
You can use all the rooms except the
offices and the laboratory areas.
So what are the calamities we should be
prepared of?
Actually, we should be prepared for all of
them. Let's
start with earthquakes. Remember, drop,
cover, and hold on. During an earthquake,
first,
be calm. Be alert and don't panic. Quickly
open the door if
possible. Dock under a sturdy table or
desk. Cover
and hold on to it to protect your head.
Stay away from windows,
bookcases, bookshelves, heavy mirrors,
hanging plants,
fans, and other heavy objects. Stay
undercover till the shaking
stops. After tremors subside, exit your
home or school
building and move to open fields. If the
FIVOX
announces that there is Alert Level 1 and
you're still in the campus,
don't you worry. Our school is far and
safe from the 6-kilometer
danger zone. When there is flood while
you're still in the campus,
stay tuned to the announcements for
further information and instructions.
If you are ordered to evacuate, do not
walk through
flowing water. Drowning is the number one
cause of flood deaths.
Most of these drownings occur during flash
floods. Follow the
designated evacuation procedure. Stay
alert and
awake. Be aware that intense, short bursts
of rain may be
particularly dangerous, especially after
longer periods of heavy rainfall
and damp weather. Be alert. Know the
safest place and the
exits in your area. Don't be hysterical
and think of what you should do
first for you to be able to survive. When
you're in the nursing department,
you are in the farthest in all departments
so you can take this way.
If you're in technology department, take
this way.
And if you're in CESD department, this
leads the way.
For the students who's in SB department,
you're nearest in the exit.
Don't panic. You're gonna leave the place
safe. In case of
emergencies, you should know the emergency
hotlines in your area.
In BUPC, we have these hotlines.
Being prepared is better than being sorry.
The students,
faculty, and administration in BUPC should
be prepared in any
natural disaster. This is a reminder from
us to stay safe
and be knowledgeable of these disasters.
It can take time,
but it can help you in the near future. Be
informed.
Be prepared. And rise above any disaster.
Be prepared. Take care.
Be prepared. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. Thank you.